Yahiko died...
And from then on, I took over as the leader of our organization.
Since that day, countless comrades fought and died.
One by one... One after another...
They continued to die.
The peace-addled citizens of the Land of Fire...
The small commissions they pay to the Hidden Leaf become war funds.
The Land of Fire is fully aware of having taken part in war,
yet they falsely proclaim peace.
The peace you great nations enjoy only exists precariously
atop the sacrifices of us small nations.
To us, your peace means violence.
Just by living, people hurt others without even realizing it.
So long as humanity exists, hate will also exist.
True peace cannot exist in this cursed world.
Everything Jiraiya Sensei said is wishful thinking!
I have told you my story.
Now let me hear your answer.
What did I really lose that day?
ano hi honto ni ushinatta monotte nan dattakke
For the life of me, I can't remember.
tou ni wasureteshimatta yo
We slowly lost sight of each other in the twilight...
yuugure de futari sukoshizutsu mienakunatteitte
And yet we're stuck here - unable to go home.
sore nanoni bokura kaerezu ni ita
Weak, frail souls lost in the world...
dokoka ni kowaresou na moroi kokoro
We act strong to hide their fragility.
tsuyogaru kotoba de ootte kakushiteru
Hide their fragility... ootte kakushiteru
So farewell, but even forced apart...
sayonara aenakunattatte Our stories go on.
bokura wa tsuzuki ga aru kara
kimi no inai sekai datte hashiru yo
Even in a world without you, I run.
To someday get past the pain.
itsuka no itami mo koete
koete Someday...
Tale of Naruto Uzumaki
I have told you my story.
Now let me hear your answer.
TALES OF A GUTSY NINJA
But I have faith that there will come a time
when people can truly understand one another.
You may be right.
I also think the same way.
I see...
I get where you're coming from now.
But I still... can't forgive you.
I still hate you.
Then you want to settle this?
But...
Pervy Sage believed in me, and left me his quest.
So I'm gonna believe in Pervy Sage's belief.
That's my answer.
So...I won't kill you guys.
You'll believe in what Jiraiya Sensei believed?
I see.
So that's your answer.
And do you expect us to wait...
until you make this world a peaceful place?
Don't play with me!
It's far too late for me to believe Jiraiya's words!
There's no such thing as true peace!
As long as we live in this cursed world
peace is impossible!
Then...
Then...I'll break that curse.
If there is such a thing as peace, I'll seize it!
I'll never give up!
You...
That's...
Nagato? What's wrong?
Those...words...
That's right.
They're taken straight from this book.
The first novel written by Pervy Sage.
Pervy Sage was seriously trying to change the world with this.
At the end of this book, he wrote about a student
who helped provide him with inspiration.
It was you, Nagato.
No...
Sensei...
What's the matter?
Is this a good time?
Sure... I was trying to start on my book,
but I can't come up with any ideas.
I figured I'd take a break and get a bite to eat.
So? What's going on?
About what you once said to me about the hatred in this world...
I've been thinking about it.
Oh yeah? Have you figured anything out?
Peace...
I don't know how to achieve peace yet.
But...
Some day, I'll break this curse.
If there is such a thing as peace, I'll seize it!
There's something more important than the method.
It's the power to believe in it!
I see... That's an excellent thought.
You may very well be correct.
What is it?
Thanks to you, I think I'll be able to write a fine novel!
Now then...
First, I've got to come up with a name for the hero.
Now I can return to my village without any worries.
You are on your own from now on.
You've done well these past three years!
Don't cry, Yahiko.
Or people will call you a coward.
Konan... You're gonna grow up to be a beauty.
I'm looking forward to seeing you again.
This is a poor land.
And there's more sadness and tough times up ahead.
But now, you have the strength to change this land.
Nagato... You three have grown up. Don't you agree?
Thank you, Sensei.
Come on, stop crying Yahiko.
I'm sure we'll see him again someday.
Sensei...
Why don't you give it up?
This game of tag is getting boring.
A Smoke Bomb?
Give it up.
Can I say one thing?
I don't care to listen!
Die already!
Give up...
on me giving up!
Even if you bring me down,
another assassin will attack the village.
As long as we are cursed to live in the Ninja World,
there will be no peace.
Then... I'll break that curse!
If there is such a thing as peace, I'll seize it!
I'll never give up!
Wh-Who are you?
My name is...
Maybe you are the reincarnation of that monk.
I have a feeling that those eyes of yours
have been entrusted with the monk's hopes.
A certain sage gave me a prophecy...
That one of my students will bring about a great change
in the Ninja World.
And I will guide that revolutionary.
I believe you are that person. And I also believe in you.
You are the savior of this world.
I know...you can do it.
It's the power to believe in it!
Amazing, Yahiko!
What a huge catch, I'm impressed!
Awesome, huh?
It tastes great, doesn't it Nagato?
Uh-huh. It's great.
That looks tasty, Mother.
Now eat up, Nagato.
Okay.
Rather than rule the world through pain...
I wish you had moved past the pain
and harnessed your power to bring about peace in a positive way.
So I'm gonna believe in Pervy Sage's belief.
And...the name of the hero in this novel...
His name is...
Then I'll break that curse.
If there is such a thing as peace, I'll seize it!
I'll never give up!
Wh-Who are you?
My name is...
Naruto!
The name of the hero in this novel...
is Naruto!
My name is a precious keepsake from Pervy Sage!
I cannot just give up and stain my master's keepsake!
I will be the Hokage!
And I will bring peace to the Hidden Rain!
Please believe in me!
How?
How can you say that you will never change?
That you will not change
no matter how great the pain you face.
Can you continue believing in yourself?
Can you guarantee it?
Can you have such faith in yourself?
I've experienced pain too...
And there's a lot of pain nesting inside of me as well.
There's no telling what kind of pain will come after me.
But...
TALES OF A GUTSY NINJA If I stop believing because of that...
If the hero should change
it'll turn into another story.
It'll turn into a different story from the one my master left behind.
Then it won't be Naruto!
I can't write novels like my master did.
That's why...the sequel has to come from the life I live.
No matter how great the pain, I'll continue walking.
Because that's who Naruto is!
If the hero changes, it'll turn into a different story.
You and I are sibling disciples.
As students of the same master,
we ought to be able to understand one another.
That is what I said to you earlier.
I meant it as a joke.
You are a curious fellow.
You remind me of how I once was.
Nagato...
I wasn't able to believe in Jiraiya.
Nor...could I believe in myself.
However...
I have a feeling that, unlike me,
you will walk towards a different future.
I think I shall believe in you... Naruto Uzumaki.
Gedo Art of Rinne Rebirth.
Nagato don't!
Konan... It's okay.
I am making a new decision.
A decision I had once given up on.
What is it? What kind of jutsu is that?
Those who possess the Rinnegan are able to manipulate
the jutsu of all six Pains,
and are said to exist outside the realm of life and death.
Nagato's ocular power is the jutsu that controls life and death.
He is the seventh Pain.
Gedo...
If he performs the jutsu at his current chakra level...
Nagato will not survive.
He is willing to go that far for this child...
This mysterious child has changed Nagato.
It appears to have ended.
How did it turn out?
It is as my vision foretold.
Although I never thought two of Jiraiya's students
would cross each other's paths as the Child of Prophecy.
Both becoming the ones to bring about a great change to the Ninja World.
Perhaps in that moment when Jiraiya chose not to give up,
all this became preordained.
That book really became the key to changing the world.
When the fireworks suddenly explode in the air...
fui ni agatta hanabi wo futari de miageta toki
I couldn't keep my eyes off from your face...
muchuu de miteru kimi no kao wo
sotto nusumimita no I gazed at you quietly...
It'd be so much easier if I was able to hate you...
kimi no koto kirai ni naretara ii noni
Because I always remember you, in situations like this...
kyou mitai na hi ni wa kitto
I can't help but think about the times we spent together.
mata omoidashiteshimau yo
I'm ready to forget you...
mou wasureyou kimi no koto zenbu
It just tears at my heart too much.
konna ni mo kanashikute
I wonder... why did we meet each other?
doushite deatteshimattan darou When I close my eyes...
me wo tojireba It's like you are here.
ima mo kimi ga soko ni iru you de
Iruka Sensei!
Konohamaru! You're alive.
You too, Sensei!
Ebisu Sensei, are you hurt?
This is nothing.
Konohamaru saved me.
But never mind that.
What is this phenomenon?
Yes... What's going on?
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Hero of the Hidden Leaf"
What just happened?
Tune in again!